---
layout: post
title: Data - The astrologer.
---

What if I tell you, that I can predict which of your bank account you are going to close and when. More specifically, if I say I can attempt to stop you from closing the account. To add more to it, I can even suggest you open another account in the same bank for your family members with profitable offers and you might agree as well. For your information, all these actions will be taken by you voluntarily. Sounds like magic? 
Let me now explain how a data scientist hired by your bank can make the above things possible for all accounts of the bank which seems to get closed in future. Imagine all records of your transactions are available to the data scientist, by transactions I mean on which date you have deposited what amount to the account, on which date you have withdrawal what amount. To whom you have transferred money. How many times you withdraw amount every month, how many times you deposit amount every month. How many times you use the account for online payment, when you last used it for shopping or any utility bills. Information related to every action taken in this account. 
The huge historical data of last one year or six months depending upon when the account has been opened with respect to the account transaction will be collected and stored as information diary. The enormous data will then be used for finding out specific patterns, like if withdrawal has been frequenting for last few months, if deposits stopped then it is possible that the account holder no longer find it profitable to use the account. All these will be done with the help of computer programming built by the data scientist which will use the information diary. Once the prediction strategy has been developed the same will be used to test the accuracy of the system. 
For testing the accuracy, the system will be given all historical information for all those accounts which has been closed already to understand if it is able to predict accurately. Once the system stability has been established then the bank will try to develop offers specifically for account holders depending upon their usage of the account. Like if accounts has been used mostly for shopping or paying utility bills or transferring money to family members. Then offers will be generated wither with special discount rates for shopping or adding points for paying utility bills or even having family members account in the same bank giving cashback facility. All these offers will have specific target groups depending upon their account transactions or usage. 
This way by data driven analysis bank can market their new products and increase customer base also predict customer churning and take actions to stop that which will eventually help them increase their profitability.


